# aspnet_core

[[index]]

## intro

the asp.net core mvc framework is a lightweight , open source, highly testable presentation framework optimized for use with ASP.NET Core.

- Routing
- Web APIs
- Model binding
- Model validation
- Dependency injection
- Filters
- Areas
- Testability
- Razor view engine
- Strongly typed views
- View Components
- Tag Helpers


### Empty template:

an empty project template for creating ASP.NET Core application. this template does not have any content in it.

### API:

a project template for creating ASP.NET Core application with an example controller for a RESTful HTTP service. this template can also be used for ASP.NET Core MVC view and controllers.

### Web Application:

a project template for creating ASP.NET Core application with an example ASP.NET Core Razor Pages content

### Web Application(Model-View-Controller):

a project template for creating ASP.NET Core application with example ASP.NET Core MVC views and controllers. this template can also be used for RESTful HTTP services.

### Angular,React.js and React.js with Redux:

a project template for creating ASP.NET Core application with javascript-framework based ASP.NET Core web applications.

### command line

[[dotnet]]

```dotnetcli
dotnet new --list or dotnet new -l
```
[相關連結](https://docs.microsoft.com/zh-tw/dotnet/core/tools/dotnet-new)

## selecting authentication type

- no authentication:this option will not add any authentication packages to the application

- individual user accounts: individual user account template design for connecting to an azure active directory b2c application will provide us with all the authentication and authorization data.

- work or school accounts: this is for the enterprises, organizations and schools that authenticate users with office 365, active directory,or azure directory services can also use this option.

- windows authentication: windows authentication mostly be used applications within the internet environment

## 選擇.net core 與 .net framework 開發
1. 使用.net core
    - 有跨平台需求
    - 微服務架構
    - 使用container技術
    - 需要高效能與易於擴展的服務
    - 需要不同.net 版本並行

2. 使用.net framework
    - 目前系統是.net framework
    - 第三方組件、nuget package無法相容.net core版本
    - 系統使用了.net core無法支援的功能
    - 目前使用的平台無法使用.net core

## mvc pattern
- the model-view-controller architectural pattern separates an application into three main groups of components. these components are : models , views ,and controller
- the model dose not depend on the view or the controller; both view and the controller depend on the model

- model 
1. these are the classes that represent the domain model.
2. strongly-typed views typically use ViewModel types designed to contain the data to display on that view.
3. the controller creates and populates these ViewModel instance from the model. 
4. models run on the server site

- controller
1. controller is a class that manages the interactions and data moves between the views and models
2. controller is the initial entry point in mvc pattern
3. controller is responsible for selection which model to work and which view to render

- view
1. these are dynamically generated HTML pages from templates
2. there should be minimal logic within views
3. creating view template run on the server. any javascript code and HTML code will run on the browser

## crud todo project 

[[crud_todo]]

## middleware 

[[middleware]]

## web api

[[web_api]]
[[web_api_version]]
[[aspnet_mvc_versioning]]

## routing

[[routing]]

## swagger

[[swagger]]

## security

[[security]]
[[Authorization]]
[[jwt]]
[[require_https]]

## cors
[[cors]]

## 綜合
[[three_tier_project]]
[[webApplication]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[index]: index.md "index"
[dotnet]: ../../Tool/dotnet/dotnet.md "dotnet"
[crud_todo]: project/todo/crud_todo.md "todo"
[middleware]: project/middleware/middleware.md "middleware"
[web_api]: project/webapi/web_api.md "web_api"
[web_api_version]: project/webapi/web_api_version.md "web_api_version"
[aspnet_mvc_versioning]: project/webapi/aspnet_mvc_versioning.md "aspnet_mvc_versioning"
[routing]: project/routing/routing.md "routing"
[swagger]: project/swagger/swagger.md "swagger"
[security]: project/seciurty/security.md "security"
[Authorization]: project/seciurty/Authorization.md "Authentication"
[jwt]: project/seciurty/jwt.md "jwt"
[require_https]: project/seciurty/require_https.md "require_https"
[cors]: project/cors/cors.md "cors"
[three_tier_project]: project/three_tier_project/three_tier_project.md "three_tier_project"
[webApplication]: project/webapplication/webApplication.md "webApplication"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"